---
layout: post
title: "Short Story | Moosy"
date: 2019-10-03
excerpt: "Moosy cut through the soft gooey dough of the apple pie with his antlers."
feature: assets/img/moose.png
tags: [short story, moose]
work: true
comments: false
---
## Moosy
*Written by Roxanne Joncas*

Moosy cut through the soft gooey dough of the apple pie with his antlers. He loved baking and his mother’s orchard provided the best apples. He slid the pies in the oven and plopped on the couch. It was still early, which meant he’d have time to go surfing before his father got home. Their relationship was complicated. His father was always against surfing. Ever since Moosy started, he talked about surfing like it was the worst thing a moose could possibly choose to do. He never really had a good explanation why, he just kept opposing the idea and telling Moosy to give up this silly dream.

While waiting for the pies to bake, Moosy read about nomad living online. He loved their home in British Columbia; the forests were vast and plentiful. It was close to the ocean, so perfect for surfers, but he needed to get away from his family. He wanted to finally be independent and learn to live on his own.

Time flew by and the pies filled the room with an undeniable thick warm apple-cinnamon aroma. He took them out of the oven and left his mother a note:

*Back around 10  
Moosy*

He grabbed his board and trotted happily through the forest headed for the beach.

On the way, he ran into Rosie, his best friend.

“Are you eating chocolate again?” he asked.  
“No, these are berries…” she said.  
“Chocolate covered berries?”  
“No, jeez. Can’t you just trust me?”  
“I’m not doing it to torture you.”  
“Good.”  
“Beach trip?”  
“Nah. I’ll just relax here and read.”  
“K. Catch you later.”  
“Later.”  

Moosy was so frustrated. Bears shouldn’t eat chocolate, it can kill them. It can literally kill them! Why didn’t Rosie get it? Maybe she didn’t care, he thought to himself. It’s as if she was purposely harming herself. He swallowed hard and hoped his realization wasn’t true.

Moosy and Rosie met about two years ago. At the time, Moosy was struggling with puberty. His antlers were growing awkwardly and unevenly aloft. His friends made fun of him. His dad was proud of him then. He finally wanted to teach Moosy what it meant to be a ‘real moose’.  
“Now, you can join our arborist business!” he said.

Moosy was torn. He didn’t want to take care of trees for a living. He wanted to surf, but his father was ecstatic and Moosy didn’t want to disappoint him. That’s when his dad started discouraging Moosy to surf. “You’ll end up in the thralls of a killer whale!”

Side note: Moosy loved reading and telling others that orcas, also known as killer whales, aren’t actually whales, but a type of dolphin. It’s a common misconception. His father did not appreciate the reminder.

“I won’t get eaten by an orca, Dad”. Moosy said rolling his eyes. “It’s safe out there and I love it. I want to become a professional surfer and travel the world!”  
“Travel the world? Do you think they’ll let a young moose just wander different countries to surf? Give up that silly dream, son.”

Those were the types of conversations that filled Moosy’s head ninety percent of the time. Whenever he threw his board onto the water and began to paddle, that fuzzy stuff disappeared. He was free.

Moosy stayed out there for hours at a time, catching as many waves as possible. He got really good at it by spending nearly every day practicing. He fell a lot at first. It was frustrating, but he never gave up and quickly became a natural.

Sometimes, Rosie would sit on the beach with a book and watch him surf. He liked it when she was there, he felt calmer. Afterwards, they would hang out on the sand or at the local pie place where they laughed themselves to tears. But lately, Rosie came to the beach less often. She hung around the woods, walking aimlessly, sleeping all day, or worse, stealing chocolate from the locals. She used to graffiti the walls of the nearby cities at night. It was stunning stuff. In Moosy’s eyes, she was a true artist, even if she’d never admit it. Her art always had a message to it (usually aimed at humans). It inspired forest animals for kilometers around.

He was worried about Rosie. She was there for him. She helped him get through the toughest moments of his life and was always by his side. And now, he didn’t know how to help her. Where to start? Her parents were captured by humans and taken away seven months ago. They probably just relocated them north, or somewhere else in Canada, but Rosie was positive they were murdered. She was getting more depressed and quiet with every passing day. As autumn grew closer, Moosy saw her less and less.

He tried talking to his mother about it when they were picking apples one day, but he didn’t know where to start. He had a thought: after surfing he’d bring Rosie one of the apple pies he made!

At the edge of the water, Moosy remained seated, lost in his thoughts. He didn’t feel like surfing after all. He sat on the sand and let the tide crash into him over and over, again and again, making his board bob up and down.

He sat as the sun dipped past the horizon and the moon was the only remaining light.
<br />
***
<br />
The next day, his mom woke him up early. She had made hot porridge for breakfast.

“Wake up, Sleepy Head!”  
“Uggggh… not yet, Mom.”  
“Come on, I made porridge.”  
“...Tempting,” he opened one eye.  
“If you get up now, you can catch a few waves before we go to the orchard.”  
“I’m up!”  

Moosy scarfed down his porridge. It was so comforting.

“Thanpfff, Mom!” He said his mouth half full, grabbing an apple pie on his way out the door.  
“Be back at 11!”  
“Uh-huh!”  

He looked in all of Rosie’s usual spots, but she wasn’t around. So he gave up and headed for the beach. There she was, sitting on the beach doodling in her notebook.

“New project?” he asked.  
“Something like that.”  
“I made you apple pie.”  
“Thanks.”  

He sat next to her. They were silent for a while.

“You know I’m here for you, right?”  
“I know,” she didn’t look up from her drawing.  

He didn’t know what else to say so he nodded, picked up his board and headed for the water.

It was a beautiful. He wished he could stay out there all day, but Rosie was already waving at him. That usually meant his mom messaged him and he was late. Crap! He paddled back to shore and got his stuff.  
Rosie smiled, “Don’t want to make Barbara upset!”  
“Yeah, her wrath is legendary,” Moosy smirked.  
“Later.”  
“Gator.”  

He ran home as fast as he could. He hated making her wait. When he arrived he could hardly catch his breath. But she, on the other hand, was laughing.

“What’s so funny?” he asked.  
“I changed the time on your phone so you’d be on time,” she chuckled.  
“Smart. Very smart. So, I have time to shower then?”  
“Yes, sir.”  

He wanted to be mad at her, but beaver dam was that clever. He secretly hoped he’d be cool like his Mom when he was older.

She had even laid out lunch for them. It was always delicious, no matter what she pulled out of her hoof that day. This time, she had made waffles, with fresh blackberries. They savoured their lunch and talked for over an hour, about anything and everything, except Rosie. Moosy was still avoiding that subject.

His mom got up and went to her room while Moosy ate the peanut butter pie she had prepared for dessert (Rosie stole that for him for his birthday). She came back with a small box and sat down with a serious expression on her face.

“Whaft?” he said, with his mouth full.  
“I will show you something, but you promise you can never tell your father.”  
“Okay…”  
“This is a picture of your dad when he was younger.”  
“He has the biggest smile. He looks so happy!”  
“Yea, he was more of a free spirit back then. He would always say that he wanted to travel the world with me.”  
“What happened?”  
“The humans. He eventually became consumed by hate for them and lost sight of what was important. Now, he’s so serious because he’s trying to control it.”  
“That sucks.”  
“Yes. It does ‘suck’.”  

Moosy wanted to know why she was showing him these pictures. He was happy to see that his father wasn’t always a grumpy party-pooper, but he felt like his mom was trying to tell him something. He almost asked but dropped it. He just watched her fondly look at all the past memories.  

“Look! Here, we’re at the Spring Festival. And here, we’re at the top of Mount Waddington!”  
Moosy smiled. “Cool! You still have the same big smile, Mom.”  

They spent the afternoon picking apples to sell at the market that same weekend. Animals from far and wide would come to this market every Saturday to buy apples and pies from his mother.
<br />
***
<br />
During the next week, Moosy only saw Rosie once. What was she up to? He wondered. He spent most of his time surfing and avoiding his father, who had the week off. His dad hoped they would spend time together so that he could teach Moosy all about trees. There was an ever-present twinge of guilt floating in Moosy’s subconscious. He wanted his father to smile again, but he really didn’t care about trees. If he caved and spent time with him, he knew it would leave him frustrated and feeling small and deflated. Why couldn’t his father accept him for who he was?

When he got home, he received a text from Rosie.

Secret alley, 6 p.m. tomorrow.

It was Friday evening, and he had nothing to do. He walked back down to the kitchen to join his mother.  
“I’m bored,” he said.  
“What else is new?” his mom asked.  
“Want to watch a movie?”  
“No, I’m busy.”  
“Oh, okay.”  
“Kidding, silly. I’d love to watch a movie with you,” she said as she started preparing the pot to make her legendary popcorn.  
“Sweet! Let’s watch Catman.”  
“Veto. Let’s watch Koala Jones.”  
“Climbers of the Lost Bark?”  
“As the kids say, duh!”  
“Fine, if we must.”  
“Don’t pretend like you don’t love that film. You’re obsessed with the 80s.”  
“Guilty.”  
“It’s becoming a problem,” she grinned.  

Moosy prepared the living room and shouted back towards the kitchen.  
“Where is he?”  
“Tree emergency down at the beach. Some tree fell and is blocking the way for the yearly Moose-othon happening tomorrow.”  
“Exciting stuff,” he said, settling on the couch with a blanket. “Typical dad, never around for the fun stuff,” he mumbled to himself.  
“You know, he was around earlier hoping to spend time with you,” she yelled over the opening credits.  
<br />
***
<br />  
Saturday was spent waiting for 6 p.m. He was anxious. She’d been spending too much time obsessing over conspiracy theories around her parents’ disappearance. What did Rosie want to show him? Or tell him? It was an awful and depressing situation. The humans are known for not being very kind to others, but Moosy still hoped Mr. & Mrs. Bearrington were alive. They were either relocated or murdered. Or brought to a zoo? He cringed. He never brought it up around Rosie, it was too awful.

He got out of the water. The sun was getting low, which meant it was time to go. He was fidgety. His insides were knotted tight. If he went home, his mom would insist he ate, but he couldn’t stomach anything. He slipped around the back of the house and left his board in the bushes. He darted towards the forest and ran to the “Secret Alley”, which was just a normal trail near the cliffs.

“Good-den, young Moosy. How art thou?” Rosie shouted from the top of the cliff.

Moosy looked up. It was quite a hike. He started climbing. Heights were not his favourite. He didn’t look down. After 20 minutes, he finally reached Rosie.

“Just in time for the sunset,” she said. He sat down next to her, out of breath. “You would think a surfer would be in better shape,” she whispered.  
“Shut up!” he panted.  

They sat in silence watching the sun dip lower on the horizon. Rosie handed him some nuts and chips. She’ll never stop abducting treats from the locals’ campsites. Moosy doesn’t comment and takes the bags.

“The humans don’t need this stuff. They need less processed food.”  
“And how do you know that?” he asked between bites.  
“I saw it on Webflix. They’re all overweight.”  
“More for us!”  

They chatted and laughed about nothing. It was just like old times. Smiley Rosie was back and he was glad. He was so happy to hear her laugh again. He turned to her. She was very serious. He frowned.

“What’s up?” he asked.  
“I made you something,” she said.  
“Cool! What is it?”  

Rosie got up and walked to the edge of the cliff. He followed her. There they stood, at the very peak. When you stood in this spot, the rest of the cliff fell behind you and, when the wind was blowing just right, it was like you were flying over the ocean. She turned around to look back at the side of the cliff. The sun was low and lighting up the rocks. It looked like it was on fire, flickering orange and pink. There it was, on the side of the cliff, a giant graffiti mural depicting a moose ripping a wave.

Moosy was speechless. How did she do that? He stood there in shock for a while before Rosie snapped him back to reality.

“Like it?”  
“Nah, it’s a little bit much for my taste.”  

She smacked him with the back of her paw. He laughed.

“Of course, I freakin’ like it! I love it!”  
“Good,” she seemed pleased with herself.  
“Is this why you’ve been MIA for weeks?”  
“Yup. These things take time young wave surfer.”  
“It’s amazing! I’m so honoured.”  
“Now, everyone will know the tale of the amazing surfing Moose,” she said.  
“I hope I can live up to this legendary piece.”  
“You’re so oblivious.”  
“What?”  
“You already are this moose! You inspire everyone you meet, Moosy. Don’t you see?”  
“I really don’t.”  
“You’re the only thing that kept me going this year. You are so calm and cool and nice. It’s like you have it all figured out.”  
“But, I don't. I have no idea what I’m doing. All I know is that I love surfing.”  
“Exactly. You do what you love and that is all that matters. It gives you this glow that makes everyone want to be around you. That’s why my piece was optimized for sunset viewing, so it can glow like you.”  

Moosy started crying.  
“Rosie… I didn’t know how to help you. I felt like an awful friend.”  

She hugged him as tight as she could.  
“You’re were there. You’re always there for me.”  

<br />
*Credits: photo by Ivars Krutainis on Unsplash*
