---
layout: post
title: "Short Story | Cedar"
date: 2020-01-13
excerpt: "I close the window to stop the ambulance sirens from blaring through. It only blocks half of the noise."
feature: assets/img/cedar.png
tags: [short story, cedar, essential oils, poor, nature, city living, pollution]
write: true
comments: false
---
## Cedar

I close the window to stop the ambulance sirens from blaring through. It only blocks half of the noise. John’s working on his new novel; every sound is a distraction to him. Why did we move here again?

My stomach rumbles, another distracting noise. A peanut-butter and banana sandwich should solve that. I prepare everything, only to realize that we’re out of bananas. I guess I’m going to the store. 

There’s a new hole on the sleeve of my jacket. We can’t afford a new one. Maybe once I find a job it’ll work out, or I can go to a thrift shop next week.

John asks me where I’m going. I hesitate, but I tell him. He wants me to get more things, juice and milk. Why does he never make a list? He could go out himself. Walks are great for creativity.

***

I take a detour, try to orient myself through the unfamiliar streets. It’s hard to move somewhere new, to start all over again. 

Everyone’s busy in the city. No one looks you in the eyes, or god forbid, smiles at you.

A shop display catches my attention. I step inside to see what All Natural has to offer. There are so many essential oils, all lined up alphabetically. I smell the entire collection of testers: grapefruit, lavender, vetiver. I settle on cedar. Six euros. If I don’t buy take out coffee for a few days, I can spend money on this. 

The woman behind the register seems surprised by my choice. I tell her it’s because I miss nature. She makes eye contact, surprised by my answer. She repeats my exact words back to me, “I miss nature.” She lets that sink in.

I step out onto the sidewalk. A car races by, forcing the smell of gasoline up my nostrils. I look down at the tiny bottle in my hand. Tears well up. One escapes. We’ve made nature so inaccessible. As consolation, we desperately try to capture its essence in glass vials and sell them at a profit. 

***

Once the food is stored away, I search for “how to use essential oils” online and open the bottle. It slips through my fingers, falls to the ground, and bursts open. The wooden floor is covered, oil seeping through the cracks. The smell is overwhelming. 

I sigh, grab a towel, and bend over with the intention to clean up the mess. I lay down next to oil and close my eyes instead. Now, I can pretend my apartment is a forest and not an expensive space that I can’t afford.


*Photo by <a target="_blank" href="https://unsplash.com/@nickwest">Nick West</a> on Unsplash*
